Gwenevere Abriel: Looks so good, like your classes.
Adam Vallejos: Thank you. Yeah, when you win. And my point me yesterday.
Gwenevere Abriel: good cheer, you can see
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you like nearsighted or farsighted. Like what's your deal
Adam Vallejos: Okay, what is it when I can see, fire. The fire sign
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, you're near side it's. You can see it near but you can't see stuff out. Okay, got it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, of course, you got to have that when you're driving you can't see the signs.
Yeah, exactly.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so you're busy doing some things about around funeral arrangements with your mom.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, and just
Adam Vallejos: Getting everything ready for
Adam Vallejos: You getting their outfit for she's gonna do
Adam Vallejos: She decided, I'm in cremation.
Adam Vallejos: She's like, she's like
Any thoughts about that.
Adam Vallejos: Guess.
Adam Vallejos: They wanted to do it because his dad his dad had passed away and
Adam Vallejos: They, they get him. And I guess they
Adam Vallejos: I don't know. We just want to put them next to each other and
Adam Vallejos: I want to
Adam Vallejos: Close it. So, right, because I
Adam Vallejos: I'm gonna get like that little necklace thing with some of it in his
Adam Vallejos: Some of his name.
Gwenevere Abriel: I like that. I didn't know, people were doing that now you can carry him around with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how, how, how much have you had a chance to talk out loud about what this process has been you and your mom been talking you and you're on.
Adam Vallejos: Every
Adam Vallejos: Month. Like, I don't know, I always
Adam Vallejos: I guess they always want stuff in life.
Gwenevere Abriel: So why don't we take this time and give yourself permission to just, just whatever comes up for you, then let me just hold that space for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because
Gwenevere Abriel: If you feel like crying that fence. If you feel you're angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, whatever it is. It's going to take probably, months, years for this grief process.
Gwenevere Abriel: But just curious. I had in my mind in the back of my mind because I only know a couple little things about your dad.
Gwenevere Abriel: I only have
Gwenevere Abriel: Was working on cars and you were going to maybe do a little bit of a
Adam Vallejos: Training.
Gwenevere Abriel: Training with him. And I think there may have been addiction in his life.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, we'll see. I it's not my real dad. Okay, it's my monitors, but he was more with that to me than my filter.
Gwenevere Abriel: That feels painful.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah yeah
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, he's my
Adam Vallejos: Call him my dad and my real dad, you know, I mean, that's why. But
Adam Vallejos: He was my mom was married to him for like 18 years and I knew
Adam Vallejos: I grew up with him or that was like my dad was
Adam Vallejos: my real dad was in prison for 17 years and then he just had got out like two, three years ago. And then my thing now is that my step dad, he
Adam Vallejos: He was in prison to anything that I guess hurts more is that he had just got out like three weeks ago.
Adam Vallejos: And we didn't really get to spend that much time together and seeing them like
Adam Vallejos: Two or three times.
Adam Vallejos: And
Adam Vallejos: Then my mom just showed up.
Adam Vallejos: And said that he
Adam Vallejos: Passed away.
Gwenevere Abriel: You got robbed right the opportunity to get to know them a little bit after that period was away.
Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: Like we didn't really get to talk to my still really
Adam Vallejos: Good. My mom didn't
Adam Vallejos: Mom didn't have them go back to the house because I know this is a big thing cuz he he
Adam Vallejos: He just she was supposed to go to a halfway house after he got out of prison.
Adam Vallejos: And he did.
Adam Vallejos: Um, but knowing my dad, he will stay in there, he
Adam Vallejos: He was on the run.
Adam Vallejos: He escaped from halfway house he does eating scape but he just left, right, so he was he was on the run and
Adam Vallejos: My mom didn't want him.
Adam Vallejos: At the house like that because we had my little brother and and stuff. And my boys and she didn't want the Cubs going over there busting stuff. So that's why
Adam Vallejos: My mom is kind of
Adam Vallejos: Taking the arts or two because she didn't have he
Adam Vallejos: Didn't do what he was supposed to. I mean, if he did what he was supposed to state up halfway house.
Adam Vallejos: He would probably still be here.
Tomorrow mom blaming herself somehow
Gwenevere Abriel: It's definitely not her fault, but it can seem like that, right, because we didn't let her let them stay at the house and, you know, but we don't know. We don't know what horrible things might have happened if he had stayed at that house. We just don't know. She
Gwenevere Abriel: She made the best decision that she could. And he you know he's
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so what are you going to miss about and tell me, tell me a little bit about him which going to miss.
Adam Vallejos: I guess.
Adam Vallejos: Talking to him because he was like going
Adam Vallejos: To talk to me about anything.
Adam Vallejos: We didn't really do.
Adam Vallejos: Like stuff together really but we could just talk to
Adam Vallejos: Him.
Adam Vallejos: He's a good draw stuff and he
Adam Vallejos: Was he was supposed to finish because he didn't my tip to you all night and you're supposed to finish that
Adam Vallejos: Now I'm thinking just to look at least say that something have him on my buddy.
That's me like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe later on down the line, you know, it'll really mean something. When you have that tattoo finished.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah yeah
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, it's just
Adam Vallejos: And I don't think you're like really hit me still. Yeah, because I haven't seen him or not. I have my mom didn't even really get to see him as he was his sister's house and
Adam Vallejos: When she went over there, they just
Adam Vallejos: Let him. Let her feel him like do the bag.
Adam Vallejos: And
Adam Vallejos: So like that, or no, I just have it.
Adam Vallejos: As in, and it's just weird, like the sister.
Adam Vallejos: He was at his sister's house and he's just
Adam Vallejos: Kind of acting weird toward my mom and like
Adam Vallejos: Because my mom has all the, like, I don't know. We still haven't really found directly how he died and
Adam Vallejos: This is do is like acting weird about dogs have seen stuff like that.
Adam Vallejos: Like she did something. I don't know. It was weird.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Still, it's awkward and, you know,
Adam Vallejos: And
Adam Vallejos: And she's just to my mom has all the power that she has to do
Adam Vallejos: This is just acting like
Adam Vallejos: Like she wanted on okay here's this is
Adam Vallejos: Like, not even like worried about him. She's worried about the money and like she wants the money to go like very and I don't know it's just weird how she feels like she's very caring. She's worried about getting the autopsy in her hand before anybody else sees it and
Adam Vallejos: She he was
Adam Vallejos: She said that she called right away at in the morning on Sunday morning and
Adam Vallejos: He was already a mom said that he was ready, but real cold and
Adam Vallejos: And that takes usually like six hours.
Adam Vallejos: And
Adam Vallejos: So like her story and really adding up to what she's saying.
Adam Vallejos: She's saying that like he was, he lets you found them in the kitchen on the floor like having a seizure, I guess.
Adam Vallejos: And then she was trying to
Adam Vallejos: rush to the she was rubbing his heart or something because they're shifting to the he had a heart attack or something but
Adam Vallejos: The timing really adding up because she said that she said that he was still alive when she found on my he was having a seizure and coming from the mouth, but not even
Adam Vallejos: Not even hours later, he was already cold and stiff.
Adam Vallejos: And that takes up to like six hours so
Adam Vallejos: It just still make sense, really.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you like thinking those thoughts that maybe she did something negative.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some kind of distracting for you kind of giving your mind something to focus on, like maybe maybe his sister did something that can be a distraction, then you don't kind of have to think about, really, what just happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's going to change.
Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, I guess that's been a big distraction is thinking how he died. Exactly. And
Adam Vallejos: And
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, I just, I don't know, I just, I guess, been more just thinking about her and what she did and how she's acting right now and
Adam Vallejos: And yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So my guess is Adam at some point maybe months from now, it may not fit you for quite a while.
Gwenevere Abriel: The connection between the loss of this man this father of yours and bigger losses, right, the amount of time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe having him be there when you were a child and that bigger loss that may come up. So don't be surprised if you find yourself, sort of in that sad state and a lot of other memories are coming up. Don't, don't be surprised if that happens like
Gwenevere Abriel: I needed to Father. It's not just that he passed now but I needed him many, many years ago to and he wasn't there, that kind of thing may come up for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So don't be surprised if it does, okay.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: There's gonna be he's gonna have his ashes next to his who put next to
Gwenevere Abriel: His dad. Okay.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, so we're just
Adam Vallejos: We're gonna have a viewing for him.
Adam Vallejos: Not this weekend, but next Saturday.
Adam Vallejos: And then
Adam Vallejos: That's really the only thing that set in for a day is his viewing and then
Adam Vallejos: We're trying to get
Adam Vallejos: Some church to have his own
Adam Vallejos: To have like this service. I guess for him and stuff. And he's
Adam Vallejos: But we have a the churches. I guess the church that will help us like more with they do it like for free. They just do like donations or something. But right now, that churches.
Adam Vallejos: Is getting like remodel like well. The kitchen is getting the model, then that's what we need to like to have the food and stuff for everyone and
Adam Vallejos: So we're just trying to figure that out because right now we just have the viewing set for him.
Adam Vallejos: And
Adam Vallejos: We just yeah I'm just trying to help my mom do all that, cuz she's
Adam Vallejos: And his family is this, I came out always like
Adam Vallejos: Because she ever since she went to prison. This last time.
Adam Vallejos: Some, not all, but some of his family just been
Adam Vallejos: Kind of hitting on my mama just for SATA know why like she's trying to keep my brother away from them and stuff, but she's she don't she just didn't over
Adam Vallejos: They don't ever recall. Get him or see him my little brother and they're acting like my mom had kept them away. And she went to prison. This last time and
Adam Vallejos: And now they're just
Adam Vallejos: Acting like it's about them.
Adam Vallejos: And just nothing about them. I mean, they called my dad Michael and they're just acting weird, so I know that's harder for my mom to right now.
Adam Vallejos: How they're acting torturing and it was really hard on my little brother to because he
Adam Vallejos: He never really met his that he might he went to prison, when he was three years old.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's his biological father
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So how much contact you having with your brother around this.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, I've
Adam Vallejos: Been there as much as I can for him because he he was just, it was hard because he was he was so happy when he got out and he finally got to me is that he was just like
Adam Vallejos: I finally have a dad now and
Adam Vallejos: He would just gone. And I know my brother and my little brother, my little brother's been texting his phone.
Adam Vallejos: Phone still then my mom has it.
Adam Vallejos: And he's just saying, like, why did you have to us.
Adam Vallejos: In this envelope. He just says I love you. I miss you and say hi to
Adam Vallejos: His ground play
Adam Vallejos: I don't know, it's just sad too hard to see. And nobody like that.
Adam Vallejos: And he's just
Adam Vallejos: It just part because he just really guys that back and he only seen him.
Adam Vallejos: A couple times, but my mom. My mom had took on boto they went on to go. He went to be and they did some other things together. Just then three
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm.
So,
Adam Vallejos: He got he was so happy that he had his that and then
Adam Vallejos: You just gone again.
Gwenevere Abriel: How does it affect you.
Gwenevere Abriel: For a moment, again, and now you don't
Adam Vallejos: And I just
Adam Vallejos: He was just he he came
Adam Vallejos: That night before.
Adam Vallejos: That night before he came to the house and he seen
Adam Vallejos: He was fine. He wasn't he seemed perfectly fine.
Adam Vallejos: He just
Adam Vallejos: Left and the Right number
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And how does this impact how you are with your kids right now.
Adam Vallejos: This makes me
Adam Vallejos: Not take anything for granted, little thing reason
Adam Vallejos: Everything. It's just
Adam Vallejos: Again, making me closer to them, actually. So, because anything could happen.
Adam Vallejos: It's just making me
Adam Vallejos: Closer to them and
Adam Vallejos: Making me not take any all the little things for granted. Anything anytime I get to spend
Gwenevere Abriel: Things like this can either sort of divide family members or it's an opportunity to get closer to connect in an even more honest way and it sounds like at least with your children.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're seeing this as an opportunity to get closer, and that's that's a good sign it. That's what we do. As humans, we do need each other. We need to come together and support one another.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's pretty smart. So you're going to gratitude with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Any questions for you. Are they are they talking yet or they're still kind of quiet.
Adam Vallejos: Really
Adam Vallejos: Well, because they really
Adam Vallejos: They really didn't know him at all because my oldest son was was only a year old when he went to prison, and then they're just
Adam Vallejos: They just met. They just barely got to meet him and my, my youngest son wasn't even born at all, and he
Adam Vallejos: Still like he
Adam Vallejos: I know my boys and really
Adam Vallejos: Because they didn't know him at all. So,
Adam Vallejos: But they're just still wondering like why they just have their grandpa back, they just kept cutting ground and
Adam Vallejos: Now he's fun to
Gwenevere Abriel: Film and this is obviously very early in this process. But you and I have been talking about.
Gwenevere Abriel: You really getting into your life, you know, look how you have these glasses right at one point it was like, oh, I forgot that part.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then next. It's going to be sort of, you know, heading to the DMV you guys call it something else but Department of Motor Vehicles right getting that that license so that more opportunities come your way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is this going to derail you right now, is it feeling like oh now I don't I don't I don't want to do it or is it still okay this is it. I've got to get in my life. Life is short, what are you doing with it.
Adam Vallejos: It's fairly
Adam Vallejos: Easy get everything
Adam Vallejos: Everything's
Adam Vallejos: Have to do is not really
Adam Vallejos: I don't know, it's just, it's hard to do it, but I'm still need to do everything that you get. I got my glasses so I I could have easily just not went and
Adam Vallejos: But now I just
Adam Vallejos: Want to still get everything done because life is short I anybody could just be gone tomorrow.
Adam Vallejos: And
Gwenevere Abriel: So make you think about your substance use in your voice, your with your kids.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah. Was it make you think about
Adam Vallejos: That I
Adam Vallejos: Think
Adam Vallejos: Is my what happened. I think he was he was using anything. And I think that I had with him.
Gwenevere Abriel: My dad passed away and
Adam Vallejos: It's just I don't
Adam Vallejos: Make me get on to me too, because it just takes all the time away from my family when I mean, when I was using yeah and I wasn't there at all.
Adam Vallejos: And I just don't want to go back to any of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: This part of me that wants to sort of take advantage of this moment, you know. Maybe not today but down the line and see if at some point, you'd be willing to say
Gwenevere Abriel: A goodbye letter right a goodbye letter to heroin.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not an easy letter to write, you know, it's a
Gwenevere Abriel: I see if I can track down some of the ones that I have
Gwenevere Abriel: They're harder, right, because to say goodbye.
Adam Vallejos: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not going to see it again means closing the door on that chapter.
Gwenevere Abriel: saying goodbye not I'll see you later, which keeps the door cracked open. But what happens from these letters is you can say things like
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you. Right, thank you also for helping me not have to face my problems. Yeah, yeah. I appreciate that. Thanks. You also still you know 10 years you rob for me seeing my children's milestones, you get to get it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And like you're talking to an actual person when you write this this goodbye letter you think of this heroin this substance and maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of picturing it right in an image of of that addiction that voice that you and I kind of talk about picturing it and saying goodbye to it, getting all the feelings, the resentment, the gratitude to because for a lot of you. It's like
Gwenevere Abriel: I got some friends. I didn't know I could, or I took some challenges that I wouldn't have done otherwise.
Gwenevere Abriel: To give yourself permission to just you say thank you. You say, I hate you. I resent you you robbed for me. And then you're done.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you and I could decide later on. What we want to do without letter. We could have a ceremony, we could read it. We could frame it, we could mail it we can bury it. We could burn it, we could do any number of things for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you wouldn't want to write that letter.
Gwenevere Abriel: And have it be a phony, you know, and not be ready to really say goodbye, not, not that it's not going to be difficult. Either way,
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now I'm hearing you talk like you might actually consider doing it. Am I, am I right.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, why would I see like to do
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you actually think I mean you even remember who you are, without even even we never will kind of person who are
Adam Vallejos: Like can go yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. That's a reasonable question. Because there are a lot of people, they get started at 1011 1213 1415 and they have forgotten.
Gwenevere Abriel: And for all
Gwenevere Abriel: That the age that people start smoking. It's typical right to most people in their, their substance use history they smoke weed first. But what ends up happening is you guys get stuck develop mentally and emotionally at that age.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you don't grow emotionally you problem solve, like a 15 year old like a 14 year old. It gets stuck right at that age.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so there's some ketchup work to do. So if you give yourself a hard time. Like, why does everybody seemed like they don't have any problem doing this and this is probably because you got started with substance use very early.
Gwenevere Abriel: And when you're thinking about your own children, statistically, the earlier that children start using
Gwenevere Abriel: The more likely that substance abuse and addiction is going to be a part of their life.
Gwenevere Abriel: We want to as parents we want to delay, delay, delay, delay, delay. If we can pop obviously for me right zero. But if you can delay it further into their life, their first time they smoke weed. Oh, we have just now reduce the likelihood of other substance abuse and addiction.
Gwenevere Abriel: By an astronomically high number.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, that's one of my main things for my boys, because I did start early. I study like well
Adam Vallejos: It is early. I just know people that started like way earlier than me and a couple years earlier. But I started like a 14 smoking weed and then
Adam Vallejos: I didn't, I just did that for years until I was about 18 and that's when I started. That's when I first tried to heroin or I guess maybe 17 is when I did. I started with the pills and as I tried pills and then
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, and that's my main thing is just to make my boys understand that.
Adam Vallejos: That life is just
Adam Vallejos: So much better without any without no you
Gwenevere Abriel: can't preach that can you not right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm in a way, and especially did you got teenagers, they're going to call you out.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah, I
Gwenevere Abriel: wouldn't call that a parent. If someone said,
Gwenevere Abriel: Do is as a note as I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I know. It's difficult.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'd be curious to meet you. I'd be curious to know who you are, without all that stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know you're not the same. You have different resources you're you're in a program right now and
Gwenevere Abriel: We can support you through this, we can help you remember we can teach you emotional regulation skills. We can take a look at cognitive distortions, you and I, you already know. I love to role play if you have a situation, we can learn
Gwenevere Abriel: How to navigate through this life and you can go get a degree in veterinary school or whatever it is that you want to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Everybody has to take
Gwenevere Abriel: That first step and say I'm enough
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to be hard for you to teach it to your children when you don't even know it in yourself.
Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: So I haven't really
Adam Vallejos: Because I can't really say anything, and how
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you can. I mean, you can add it. Of course, you can say
Adam Vallejos: When
Adam Vallejos: I don't think
Adam Vallejos: Like me
Adam Vallejos: Because I haven't, I haven't did it for a long time, so I won't be like
Adam Vallejos: I don't even understand it yet.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's all right. Okay. Okay. And I do think everything is going to be okay. You, you really want to raise your children in a healthy way and that's enough, you'll learn how to do it.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: It's just crazy. Everything is just
Adam Vallejos: happening all at once is everything that's my boys and
Adam Vallejos: My dad passing away, and
Adam Vallejos: Always
Adam Vallejos: Calling and
Adam Vallejos: They're just a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it does seem like it's happening all at once. But you don't have to feel all of it all at once, just
Gwenevere Abriel: You made it to this appointment. The next thing you'll just do the next thing, the hardest work is going to be for you to not be thinking about all of them at the same time, just one at a time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what are what's right in front of me I going to do that. I'll write things down. Remember how how important the list writing is
Gwenevere Abriel: Out, you can rely on that if you wrote it down and something you can do some things you you put on sort of that urgent list that's over on the left side things you need to get done today.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the other, the right hand side is the stuff. It's important, but you'll you'll take a look at that list tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll write a new urgent list, but just for today only got one or two or three things over on the left side and you're doing it, look what's happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: We first started with, you need a driver's license you remembered that you needed glasses, we got on the phone. I said, go for it. Right now you schedule an appointment. You went to it and then you picked it up and I promise you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Believe it or not getting a degree taking your GED learning a new trade. It's the same process.
Gwenevere Abriel: I kid you not. It's one little step at a time. No matter what, no matter, you think you want to bypass it
Gwenevere Abriel: Unless you're like one of these genius. He just take the exam and somehow like you can make it through these classes, but most people it's just
Gwenevere Abriel: I researched the class and sign up for the class or find a way to pay for it. I show up. I study the first page.
Gwenevere Abriel: Study the second page I quiz myself, all of a sudden how I'm taking the test. Oh my gosh. Now I'm passing my class. Now, I have this whole credit. I'm going to go get another one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I kid you not. It's just one step at a time. We overwhelm ourselves when we start to think that there's all this stuff to do. It's just the next right thing in front of you. It's no big magic. We're all going through it.
Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: You're doing an amazing job you have on your plate.
Gwenevere Abriel: All of a sudden, all this responsibility, these kids learn how to be a kid yourself.
Adam Vallejos: Something
To be okay.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think so, but don't be surprised if you start to get pretty sad because it'll come in waves and out of the blue. It'll come. Okay.
Adam Vallejos: Yeah.
Adam Vallejos: My mom first told me was talk right I didn't feel anything at all. It was weird.
Adam Vallejos: And then I when I was laying down, it just like hit me.
Adam Vallejos: I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you need, as far as scheduling for me. Do I need a message anything about medication today, how can how can I help
Adam Vallejos: No, she gave me a week's worth
Adam Vallejos: Doing
Adam Vallejos: So,
Adam Vallejos: Are we gonna keep Thursday or
Gwenevere Abriel: Right yeah right now. Let me just see what I have
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now I have
Gwenevere Abriel: Looks like one o'clock, just you see that that open up think it's open. Yeah, one o'clock on
Gwenevere Abriel: March 12
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you're, if you start to write formalize a plan around. Let's say employment or something comes up around
Gwenevere Abriel: A ceremony or something, just let me know. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you know how I tried to do my best. You know, the day before, just let me know as soon as you can. If you need to reschedule it
Adam Vallejos: But I have
Gwenevere Abriel: Marsh at 1pm we'll meet again there and then I'll see you in group next Tuesday.
Adam Vallejos: All right, all right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Be good to you soon.
Okay. Bye bye.